[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>RANDY VEITENHEIMER:
People always
want to talk about ascension.
But why ascension?
Ascension is transitioning
from existing reality
into an imaginative existence.
This has no reality, because
it only exists in zero reality,
nonconscious reality, the
reality of the imagination,
the reality of thinking.
It's only true over there.
It's not true in number one
reality, our physical reality.
I like to transition that
conversation to transcendence,
because that means
that the human being is
moving beyond the current
paradigm in physical reality
and engaging in all
reality in one lifetime.
What does it mean
to transcend and why
is this important for humans?
Because it appears to
be a natural progression
in human consciousness and
it represents true evolution,
not in form, but in
consciousness itself
and the requirements of
an experiential existence.
This also has, to
some degree, an effect
on the human physical form.
The effect on the physical
form is illumination.
We have talked about the human
energy field, the human energy
body, the human energy form
that supports our physical form.
And we see representations
of it throughout history.
All kinds of art tried to
depict the different states
of what it means to be human.
When you get to the
elevated states, those
that are illuminated, those
that have transcended,
those that have
reached ascension,
it is always accompanied
by a halo, sometimes
around the entire body,
but mostly around the head.
And we say those people are
illuminated from within.
What's this mean?
It means that the total amount
of energy and consciousness
flowing through that person has
created an excess of photons
and that those photons have
become so dense that they
literally become visible.
Now, in a baby, this is
just the etheric field.
We can see this little energy
field that surrounds a baby.
As we get older,
we tend to lose it.
But in some people,
and particularly those
that have some type of
spiritual practices,
we can see where that
photonic generation actually
comes into existence,
in excess of what
is normal for a human being.
We call these
people enlightened.
The term itself, light, refers
to photons being generated.
We are a photonic entity.
It's how we see things.
It's how we interact with
the primary sense of sight.
Sight allows us the
greatest information flow,
but it's when somebody
becomes spiritually inclined
or somebody who has achieved
some state of existence
that we start generating
this excess of photons.
And when they become
visible, that's
where we first start seeing
all these beautiful halos.
That's what it means
to be illuminated.
Transcendence itself is
generally available to anyone
on the planet, through
various practices
of intention,
acceptance, forgiveness,
among other things.
Human experiential existence
allows for and ultimately ends
in the love for life itself.
This is transcendence and its
place in human consciousness'
evolution.
This is why we should focus on
transcendence versus ascension,
because transcendence
is a reality.
And ascension is an
imaginative state
of being with no physical
perceptive senses or biology.
Number one reality is physical.
And zero reality is
the nonphysical aspects
of our existence.
And we use both of these
to expand ourselves
and our consciousness.
Transcendence is to
go beyond duality
into the unity of
the universe, which
means that you would unite
number one and zero reality.
We are teaching duality, only
so people can understand it
and then transcend
it to one reality.
When you are in unity
with the universe,
you can see all
at the same time.
You can see the energetic
and the physical
when you exist as a
human on this planet.
All the processes of
human life come together
as a functioning form of
transcendence as its outcome.
So how do we transcend?
First of all, we need the
courage to be ourselves.
In this series, I've
given you many tools
to try and understand
one's self and also
get in touch with one's self.
Once you understand you, you
need the courage to be oneself.
You need to be unique,
you and the universe.
This is the first step
towards illumination.
Once you have made
this step, you
have created movement
towards understanding
the complexity of
the world around you
and everything you
have experienced.
This understanding and
state of consciousness
leads to compassion,
forgiveness, and gratitude
for all life and all
life experiences.
We have reverence
to all existence.
This is the ability to observe
ourselves in a neutral state.
It transcends our
history and our fears.
Emerging into this state is
to become fearless, accepting,
and appreciative of your life
and all life in the universe.
Let's revisit the tools we
have learned in this series.
Tool number one, awareness.
Be aware beyond ourselves,
our local existence,
beyond your physical
number one reality.
From awareness we
go into balance.
Balance is defined
as equipose, to not
favor one or the other
forms of reality.
Balance can be achieved
through neutrality.
Neutrality can be achieved
through nonjudgment
and just observation.
Early in this series, I
gave you some exercises
to simply reflect on your
day without judgment.
These exercises
strengthen neutrality.
When you are in neutrality, it
is making a choice for balance.
From balance, we go to moment.
The moment is the uniqueness
of our presence from moment
to moment existence.
This is done through
contemplation and meditation.
From moment, we go to movement.
Movement comes from
each preceding moment.
It emerges from this time
space into our space time.
And when you have
movement, now you
have the ability to experience
yourself and life differently.
This could be considered the
pathway to transcendence.
Movement is either towards or
away, either with or against.
When you come out of the moment
you start energizing movement
and you now have momentum and
energy to move forward in life.
Now, we come to the application
of the will to change momentum.
This is the exercising
of free will.
So you eventually
experience life
as movement towards
transcendence
and a letting go of
duality to reach a state
of unity and illumination.
And now, you are including the
unity of the entire universe
in your life and
in your existence.
What is illumination?
It is the fulfillment of
the physical and energetic
in human form.
The illumination is
harder for humans,
because all thinking is a
lie and all thinking has
pre-existence state
in the universe
and then comes into
reality based on the fact
that we have and think
that we are those thoughts.
Our thoughts are part of the
collective consciousness.
And individual reception
of those thoughts
that are picked up by your
mind and then made into reality
are not necessarily true.
From pure
consciousness, you can.
And a pure consciousness
you will return.
You will do this,
whether you pursue
any form of advancement of
consciousness in this lifetime.
You will keep coming
back according
to Vedic literature,
gnostic, and other alchemical
and spiritual theories.
You will continue
your advancement only
as your consciousness elevates.
What's interesting
about transcendence
is it occurs not only
on an individual level.
It can occur in a family group.
It can occur as a social group.
It can occur as the
consciousness of a nation.
consciousness of the world.
Every step in
transcendence has an effect
on the evolution of not just
yourself, but of all humanity.
The elevation of consciousness
has an effect on everybody
and on everything around you.
At lower levels
of consciousness,
such as guilt, evil, shame,
you are infecting everything
and everyone around you.
You are infecting reality.
At the middle levels
of consciousness,
you are affecting humanity.
And the higher levels
of consciousness, you
are inspiring and
elevating humanity.
When a person emerges into
a state of transcendence
from a horrible situation,
from an addiction,
from destructiveness to human
nature or their surroundings,
oftentimes we find in family
units or in societies,
that the entire
group transcends.
The entire group moves
with that one person
that was able to transcend
their current paradigm.
What percentage
of humanity needs
to transcend to change all
of our current reality?
Right now, with the
current earth population,
we would need about
16 million people
to transcend the current level
of consciousness on this planet
and elevate it.
At the level of
courage and neutrality,
you're actually providing
the space and opportunity
to expand consciousness.
And then, if we keep going
in a transcendent that state,
you start providing inspiration
to everyone that is around you.
I like Vedic literature.
They are some of the oldest
surviving texts in the world.
All of the early texts in
history describe a journey.
They all tell the
story of coming
into being, going
through hardship,
and eventually transcending
and leaving this world behind.
This is the story
of transcendence.
It is something that we
don't teach so much anymore.
It is the story of
elevation of consciousness.
It is the story of the
journey of the soul.
And in current literature we
call it the hero's journey.
Every human being is a hero.
They go through being born.
And they go through all the
experiences of their life
and eventually transcend
to finding peace and joy
in the nonphysical world.
Transcending the world has
been explained not just
by the Vedic.
The gnostic texts were much
more simplified and gave steps.
They gave training.
They gave teachings to
go from here to there.
The concept of love,
the concept of balance,
the concept of the golden
rule exist in all these texts.
The gnostic texts
were the first that
started explaining it in a
way that could be repeated,
as opposed to
allegorical references,
where you had to
figure it out yourself.
Alchemical texts were different.
They put a secrecy over it.
All alchemical studies
were considered secret.
They were not to
be talked about.
You weren't supposed to
particularly share information.
You were supposed to journey
down that road on your own
and hopefully come to some point
in the universe where you had
transcended, not only all
physical matter, but also
all spiritual being.
You would literally
go out of existence.
You would no longer reincarnate.
You won't have to come
back to this planet
and yet this planet,
in its existence,
is one of the sole
places in the universe
to have experiential existence
as the basis for life itself.
In this series, I've
talked about the duality
of reality, light and dark,
positive and negative,
good and bad.
And the Yin Yang symbol is
a very interesting thing,
because it depicts reality.
It gives us the
light and the dark.
In every light
there is darkness.
In every darkness
there is light.
The duality of reality is that
there's no duality number one.
But as a human
being, you can only
engage one side or the other.
So when you look at
the good and the bad,
you're looking at a duality.
When you look at
light and darkness,
you're looking at duality.
But they're both equal.
One's not bad.
But when you first
start out in life,
you start in a judgmental
position that one is good
and one is bad.
We can go out of
all of that judgment
and encompass life itself.
No person, no thing, no
part of this universe
is bad in and of itself.
It requires you to
make the judgment
that something is good or bad.
As you age, with no
training, no dedication,
no spiritual
practices, you still
come to a point of acceptance.
You still emerge into a
balanced state of nonjudgment.
Think of this process
involving your thoughts,
involving your religion,
involving your politics,
involving your
social connections,
and your social consciousness.
And in all of it,
judgment comes into play.
And when you go beyond it, you
find that you're more relaxed.
You find that
you're more neutral.
You find you have more
energy for your own life.
And therefore, you
have more energy
for the things that
are important to you.
And you find yourself less
destructive of this planet
and yourself.
These are all
admirable traits that
can be achieved through
your own consciousness,
through your own contemplation.
They do not require
you to have a teacher.
They do not require you to seek
out some spiritual advancement.
They only require
you to pay attention
to actually begin
to have awareness
of life in the universe from
your perspective of being you.
My work for the
last 50 years has
been to understand transcendence
through all different areas
of research, which included
martial arts, Chinese medicine,
Native American practices,
as well as quantum physics.
And what I realized,
and hope you realize,
is that we are all
capable of contributing
to ourselves and the greater
existence of the human race.
We do this by coming
from the negative
to the neutral to the
positive in life experiences.
Learning to love all that
exist in each moment,
this is our life purpose
and our journey together.